SXSW LBE Retro (2023-03-27 15:34 GMT+11) - Transcript
Attendees
Aleksei Bachinskii, Allen Lu, Cassandra Gray, Cassandra Gray's Presentation, Lucas Hehir, Rayyan Roslan, Samuel Tate, Sana Siddiqui, Travis Gemmill, Trent Clews-de Castella
Transcript
This editable transcript was computer generated and might contain errors. People can also change the text after it was created.
Lucas Hehir: I think it's I think it's the transcribing starting and stopping
Cassandra Gray: All right,…
Samuel Tate: Yeah, I just restart it to get the actual transcript.
Cassandra Gray: okay. No,…
Samuel Tate: Sorry about that.
Lucas Hehir: that's,
Cassandra Gray: that's okay. I was like, this is some with you think I hadn't at all? Um, cool. Well, that's another one that could probably We can probably duplicate that or use it as an action point, leveraging. And I'm sure I get this right leveraging. GPC will foster the light element cycles that can be an action point, I feel silly. Does anyone else have anything I want to say about?
Cassandra Gray:  Sorry. I'm trying to get through them a bit quicker because they're running out of time.
Lucas Hehir: I to extend on it a little bit. I feel like you could not you or even take the term gpt out and just assume that we're talking about AI in all processes. Because I know it'll help Alexa with like concept art and it helps AI helps in all sorts of different ways, but we should just sort of use the whole space as much as we can.
Cassandra Gray:  Okay, it's gonna become like you Google, Something you gpt Something. Cool. A demo project should be formed with finished demo features, not everything from scratch. In one, go, who was that?
Cassandra Gray:  If you feel comfortable,
Allen Lu: Hey hey, it was me. So it's basically the confusion between demo with the type and vertical slides that we were talking about. Yeah, I was just talking about like Basically, in my, in my Imagination a day more. We are talking about a prototype. That's that's what I imagining we were we were trying to do. But yeah, like like we discuss earlier, like, okay or define. It be better for this kind of stuff.
Cassandra Gray: Yeah. No. That sounds that sounds good. And yeah, it seems similar to the stuff we put in before. Cool. Just for the record if anyone doesn't want to. Like like talk about what they've written or like you want to say and honest, feel free to just not say anything and then after, if no one was they head up. I'll just either talk about it myself, or We can just have a chance discussion, so don't feel like you have to say stuff, if you're not comfortable, if you're, if if you can, it's very helpful for us here, having direct contact with partner, lead engineers in case of unknown crashes, or Help. That you like it. So, I'm just like,…
Lucas Hehir: Father, there's nothing.
Cassandra Gray: you can say that.
Sana Siddiqui: That was really.
Cassandra Gray: You can say anonymous. Also, Lucas was that you personally.
Lucas Hehir: Week this.
Sana Siddiqui:  That was me but I think we've like, come over those play canvas or something, but like, it helps when you do have direct contact with partners, late engineers. I can help us like resolve some of these, you know, issues. That was pretty much it.
Cassandra Gray:  Okay. So do you mean like if we've been able to talk to Unity it might have like helped our unity issues, that kind of thing.
Sana Siddiqui: um, Yeah, I don't know if so was it a unity thing or like a the VR? The VR headset or the Ovr plugin.
Lucas Hehir: Like Yeah, yeah, I can clarify on this one a little bit because I did the chasing up, it's unity. And in this case, Unity's aware of it and as far as I understand, they're still wrestling with it. They don't know the root cause themselves. It's actually been present for three major versions of Unity now, which is kind of alarming.
Cassandra Gray: Here. Yeah. That.
Lucas Hehir:  But I think the point of that, just sorry just to expend on that really quickly. I think the point of the ticket is still a really good one and it still stands because just because that's a unique issue with unity. This, this has been true in stuff in case like playing canvas. So we should keep it in front of mine.
Cassandra Gray: Hmm. So like what is the best way in living? Like sana and your opinion or whoever's opinion? To is it just about sort of maintaining a relationship with them or just making contact when we need to or
Sana Siddiqui: I'm not sure Lucas, any thoughts.
Lucas Hehir: Um, yeah, I don't know if it really matters necessarily who but we should have probably one of I imagine a developer I feel like it's sort of a programming sort of thing because that's where the issues usually lie. But yeah, I think one of the developers should probably have a point of contact on each project with the platform, the way using. Yeah.
Cassandra Gray:  Okay. That sounds good. That sounds like a good action point.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, I think specifically would be good to escalate this because it's really the only thing that let us down is this unity crash and so appreciate that? Lucas' escalated it. But if we maybe had a bit more of a collective effort to come from a few different angles, or rather than just putting the tickets like, you know, someone paying thousand bucks a month and unity seats, too, that we can go. Hey, can you spot this sucks? I can't do our job. Good to. Yeah, try and get on top of that. It's really good. Takeaway Thing.
00:05:00
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah, that's a really good one. Good good quotes on them. Oh sorry. Like the food website.
Lucas Hehir: But yeah just really quick just to check on the end of that. I think I'm when it comes to tech issues with platforms like this the squeaky wheel gets the oil, is there you companies like unity here from so many developers having so many bugs that really the one that gets resolved fast is the one that people make the most most noise about. So there is something to be said for just Being more visible with it.
Cassandra Gray: Totally. All right.
Samuel Tate: it's
Cassandra Gray: Awesome. Um, so the next one, I didn't write the next one but I wrote something similar. And I think a few people have more QA time feature freeze earlier I will in two seconds. Give whoever I don't want to say something but Like so from my perspective, this one is a little bit hard especially when you've got a super short turn around because you have to do this thing of like, well, do we sacrifice production time doing sacrifice, pre-production time, and we already sacrifice pre-production time. But in the SO for the Sidney one, I've got like, a really rough timeline booked out in like my planning shades. And at the moment I've got like about a month set aside for Qa.
Cassandra Gray:  And which you know that timeline we can talk about it as a team and and change it as needed. But the other thing with the feature phrase and I think this will come up later is that we need to, and by way, I mostly mean I, but we need to be a lot stricter about like
Cassandra Gray:  about what's the word like about sticking to that and not sort of? Like, I, I sort of we had a meeting like, I had a meeting the other day where I was talking to people about this and like the problem that I guess I have is that I go. Well, all right, you know, there are some like, you know, some of the things people go. Let's let's do this. Let's have this content. Let's do this. And you don't know, we don't have time to do that. That's fine. But then there are some things like so the stuff that I felt that I came up against was, You know, like we were sort of talking like, well, we need an intro and outro and then I have this debate in my head where I'm like Well we're sort of past feature free, we do need those things. So I guess we bring them in anyway and I do think having a long production time will help that because if you've got like a month set aside of QA, then you can have that week in between production and qa that can be a little bit of a no man's land. If you, if there are stuff that like say like the intro on that, then still need to come in and you still got three weeks of QA on top of that. It is it is hard when you have such a short production time
Cassandra Gray:  but the person I will everyone kind of say on this but I will just say just whoever wrote that want to want to say something.
Sana Siddiqui: I'll just add one more thing. I forgot to mention, we did have like, Or ecosphere, like the cloud build, because making bills on your computer takes time. And I feel like if we also just I know it takes a bit to set it up but like for something like it's it ends up being important to have that while we're developing. So if we could just yeah, I'm just make time for Or no, something similar to having cloud builds.
Cassandra Gray: But we can put that have having cloud builds as an action point. Please check, jvt. Or right? We need to put a problem. That won't wait. Whoever know that cool. Did anyone else want to? I know that this is something that has been written accomplished time. So we might as well have the discussion now rather than have like three different discussions over, the things anyone else want to jump in?
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, I guess like I feel like in a general approach, like definitely have something. It's locked off and safe and steady. I find just from experience.
Trent Clews-de Castella:  The final moments, you know, weeks and then days of a project is when feels like immense change comes in and it's only when you kind of see it fully formed that you can question and test things in a way that it's hard when you look at a play blast or a storyboard and some of those things come up that then make the world of difference. I think, where we landed for this was a really good example of that. Like maybe there's elements where it's like a system level lock, but then the content can change and we have a system of side loading, the content that enables improving the video and, you know, for instance, we had like Josh's sounds in the score and then the video and then the video and it's like, if they're all happening separately, it's a lot of work for something. They're going to create all that and get all the timing right versus what we had for the video scenes, was being able to do all that in one final render and just upload and change that video. And so, I think it's a bit of a two-pronged approach. Like we don't want to have things that will break, but there is a lot of that.
00:10:00
Samuel Tate: Yeah, I'm mostly gonna reiterate. We had a bit of a chat about it. I personally, I agree. That if we have our safety build and we've Done. Like, you know, like it's it's all about the monsters, right? So we've hit our must do's then. There should be some flexibility with the content changes and and defining well. Okay, that's a content update versus the system update, that's safe. I think what I said to what? I was talking it Trenton Ray and Cass about it. Is that not necessarily my
Samuel Tate:  Job. But just in my experience, you know, I've been doing this a long time and in some ways I'm responsible, just come across a lot. And is that there was a point in the last week where I was suggesting content and sequence changes, despite seeing a bug and probably my own discipline should have kicked in and it's of being like, are we should probably honor that like last week qa feature free or at least stop and fix all these bugs before we do any of those other things that I was thinking about and it's not all on me, but it's more like I think in a sense, Like I was a bit. cocky or overconfident because you know it relative to the kinds of bugs and the amount of bugs that we had and whatever it was pretty safe bet to think that we'd bring it into land and but what we saw was the reason, you know, we had those kinds of like, cut offs Et for going into qa and bug fixing and that doesn't mean we can't, you know, then do content requests and stuff after that. But like,
Samuel Tate: How long's a piece of string with what's a critical bug. Was just one. Sorry. This is just like my point from that kind of the whole thing, the other side of it. Like but having a hard cut off, qa feature, freeze. as a safety thing but then still managing that and then if we then pass QA and everything, then there's no reason we can't do contention or whatever but then the other side of it is just like trying to do a bit less content and Scope was um, so that we're not Trying to go as far, which means we don't have to try and push up against that QA cutoff date as well. Those were like my two. I just think they're interconnected a little bit, but yeah.
Cassandra Gray: Um yeah, sorry, so I this is on me, I should have maybe clarified this, there's generally what you would have is. So there would be the feature phrase, and then content lock, and feature phrase. So this is sort of what you were saying. Trent, the feature freeze is like the mechanics and like, kind of the engineering of it all and the stuff that is most likely to to break, like going down the track. So you'd say, All right, well, we're not gonna we're not going to introduce like hand tracking, we're not gonna bring like a new I don't know, like, control schema and I don't have a control scheme, you know what I mean? Because that's gonna break it. But you can still as long as it's like,
Cassandra Gray:  There's nothing about the art or the sound or anything that is going to break the the mechanics and that usually like you can still swap those in and out letting out to and then the content lock is usually less of a bug fixing bug bug thing, which I mean it is partly of it but it's more going. Well, we don't want to Like it just kind of gets a psychologically kind of messes with your head if like, two days before the deadline minister, right? So the content look, This is the feature phrase is not like stuff that will break it, the content lock. It's like this is when we want the final content to be in, if that kind of makes sense, I'm Travis.
Travis Gemmill: Yeah, I know. I just got one thing to add, I guess that it. Well, just like an emphasis on say like content lock you kind of would want it like blocked out that week prior so like it's easy.
Cassandra Gray:  Is.
Travis Gemmill: If I said just needs to replace with another PNG. But say for example, if we're like adding new UI like we were in the prototype and then kind of They've all got like animations attached to him and then you making like 50 changes and then you get a crash, we'll then it's hard to actually know which bit of content could be cooking it. So, yeah. Probably emphasis the black, the contents easy to be changed in that last week, but it needs to be like, yeah, blocked out prior to that.
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah, usually what I would do like what I've done in the past is you'll have the feature look. Like if you go like let's say like a month of qa, you'd have the feature. Look at the start of the month and then the content log either a week after that or maybe two weeks after that depending on what you want to do, and then you've got like a final two weeks or three weeks when nothing changes. You're just bug fixing and like, The exceptions that is like, I guess small amounts of Polish and stuff like that. But I mean, that's something, just because I'm a little bit wary, the fact that we are running very short, on time. Like that is, this is a discussion that we can have during planning meetings as a team like we can, we can because I've got, like, very rough dates set out and so we can look at that, we go. Well, this is when we want to do content. Like, etc. So we
00:15:00
Cassandra Gray:  Like probably can go. All right this is just something that we know we need to kind of talk about and figure out for the future. And then if we want to jump to like the next The next card. Unless does anyone else have anything they want to say about it?
Lucas Hehir: Oh, quickly check. I really like the idea of having system. Lock, lock off date and then a content lock update being these like distinct separate things because content can't go in the system that doesn't exist. So, having having a system block update first, and that sort of anything before, that date encapsulates, prototypes gray boxes, anything that would help me system decisions. Yeah, I think that's a really good cut update. And then after that, we can only be thinking about content. Ideally,
Trent Clews-de Castella: And just one last thing I guess, like if I'm curious like Lucas is pretty confident the issues and unity's end, whereas it feels like the kind of language here is like, we get pushing new features and then it's caused to break in the chain. And then, Yeah, I'm curious as to it's kind of hard because we're sort of thinking into this mind like we've broken, It was the launch. But then if that was something that was from sloppy practice, or if it was just, you know, outside of our control and then we're beating ourselves up about it. Get some curious, if it's one or the other.
Samuel Tate: but I think,…
Cassandra Gray: Good.
Samuel Tate: for me, speaking from my own, assessment of like was like if we had of Dropped into. Like Q.
Samuel Tate: Um like feature, what if we want to call it, where we stop working on it and fix bugs better done that sooner we could have caught that issue sooner like having crashes and something like that. It didn't look like the biggest bug ever. And, you know, that kind of thing. It's usually something we can fix. Pretty easily. And I'm not saying we would have been able to fix it more like we would have been across and ahead of that a bit sooner. And it's not because we were putting more stuff in or doing things poorly. It's more that we were trying to get more in Timeline wise, like we're trying to go further it, me as well. You know, I I shipped the video that had A whole bunch of new stuff in. It was great like because I was trying to elevate it where I probably should have said like,
Samuel Tate:  Kept the video in the pocket, went talk to Cass said Hey let's go in a qa lock Travis worry about a crash over here blah like and what this is just my own experience. I think everyone could say something like this. We've done enough time. So when I say we were cramming stuff here and bit squeezed and it's more if we had a realized it was an issue. Two weeks ahead. We might have been able to now put some other way or whatever you know just like Yeah, it's that's the thing is it's just like that safety mechanism that you don't want to have. It's like insurance. You don't want you. You know. Yeah.
Cassandra Gray: Hmm. I mean that's the like it you're right. You you're very very right. That's I guess. The problem with those incredibly tight deadlines is that it's Edison, once you get down to a certain kind of production timeline, like like I like under a certain amount of months weeks, whatever. You kind of almost can't have that because you you like you can't really have a
Cassandra Gray:  unless you unless you're Skype is tiny and you're doing like one tiny thing, kind of like kind of like we always like let's say jump love as an example. We're doing this one thing super easy pretty much already done and then you know if we were doing that on the same time line here, all right you've got a huge amount of time. You can do that. The problem is because we're trying and I think the skirt will come up later on in the discussion. But like, if you're trying to do something with certain amount of Skype, in this short amount of time line, something has to be sacrificed and usually it's gonna be that content for his time. If that makes sense. Like, it's really hard to have a Like a perfect healthy. Production cycle in. A short timeline unless you've perfectly balanced the scope. If that makes sense.
Samuel Tate: yeah, and I think it's just something that scales a bit with um like this the length of it and the like the importance of it as well is If you've only got, if you've only got a month, then maybe your content QA, lock is three days before the deadline that it's got to be handed over. and then, if you've got three months or two months, you know, maybe I think always like as a good rule of thumb, like, like it's own,…
00:20:00
Cassandra Gray: Hmm.
Samuel Tate: it going into QA a week before it's due and then, at least internally as the team, we almost forget that that's And that week before, it's true, is our Like target deadline or whatever. That's, it's almost like you trick yourself a little bit and I
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah.
Samuel Tate:  Would. Yeah, I was good. You know, I was guilty that I think that we were, because we've been cocky and competent because we've gotten better and better. And it wasn't for the stitch up, we would have been fine as well, and it's just reminded me. Why we? Why would
Cassandra Gray: Well I mean it's legally because I've done that I keep doing that so we're okay. Well if we hadn't run into this unity thing then we would have been fine but I mean we did run into the unity thing and it's I guess it just emphasizes. That anytime. you do have a situation where you've got this short deadline and you're kind of getting everything in and it goes, well, It's kind of, I don't want to say the fluke because that makes it sound like that. We're not an amazing team of people doing amazing things, which we are, but it does mean that there's been a certain amount of luck to it. Like, and Like it is. Yeah. Anyway, I want to move us on from this discussion if that's all right because we're almost at the time and we're still on the First one, which is okay because this is important area of discussion. But I I do think that that is something like the phrase and stuff is something that we can discuss in our planning meetings. Someone has a hand up
Samuel Tate: Yeah, I was just gonna say that there's a call after this. That's me, Trent me like some other people that could probably either be delayed or like, at least late. So we could go longer depending on what other people have after this as well. And this,…
Cassandra Gray: I mean, this.
Samuel Tate: this is about the most important combo we can have. This month.
Cassandra Gray:  It is, this is also a very long mating line. We've been going for a while to other than Sam Trent Ray and whoever else's chat. Does anyone else have meetings at full just actually do I have any meetings before I should check on? Not good.
Samuel Tate:  I'm having a look you a clear?
Samuel Tate:  Everyone looks pretty clear except the main Travis.
Trent Clews-de Castella: What if we just pushed, this is going to 415? What if we just push that same because I guess you've ever booked it. Anyways, this meeting here goes yeah,…
Samuel Tate:  One book for friends, but I'm happy for this one today.
Trent Clews-de Castella: like if we just go like an extra 15, 20, 30 minutes, like Be good and maybe rather than going through every card cast. We just Frame it on the box and then people can just yell out what they want to talk to.
Cassandra Gray: Okay. Yeah, no actually,…
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Yeah.
Cassandra Gray: yeah, that'll probably be fine. I think for this one that would have there's a lot of things that might have been hard. But yeah, we can do that. Um, just let me, well, I guess they're the ones who've got left is Documenting the cost of each asset utilizing asylum or Redefining understands virtual storytelling, better capture of content for specific use pre-production first automatic concepts etc. So I guess following that method if people want to like put their hands up and we'll just go in order of whoever. is first, if people do have more stuff that they want to discuss about the cards that are upcoming, Not the ones that have just been.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, I can try to for one special, that's cool. I…
Cassandra Gray: Yeah, go ahead.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah. Like that.
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Weaving in a few things, right? Like this in a way we the prototypes in my mind were the specific content types and then when we weave it together and we're going to showcase it, 100% should be a demo. That's on me. In terms of the language that I use for this engagement, we prototype a lot and special storytelling in a way, was his first prototype, but the two things here was right now. We want to try and refine our understanding of what special storytelling is, you know, moving through an environment. So, as an example, this where we landed is, we need an intro and an outro and then everything else in between was kind of free room. And so that's that bottom left on there and I just there's benefit in that because there's something that we don't know and we're trying a lot of things and so to learn from that was really key. Similarly the documenting the cost of these assets and their content in a way of like how many hours went into these and then we want to try and quantify a price basically say
Trent Clews-de Castella:  In it in a way to create this again and scale it. So for instance, maybe sentient animals is really challenging whereas we unlocked something in the fungi, for instance sequence and so we what then go cool. The cost is three stars but the impacts five stars and that way, we know how that's a good return on investment versus something. That impacts two stars and the cost is five. So I was just keen to try and think long term if we can kind of reflect on our individual prototypes, the individual media and go. Hey, what was, how hard was it effectively in and how much it take is company investment? And then we can take that say into the next phase, to say the reef or some of these other assets, I didn't talk about the better capture content pieces, maybe that was Travis or someone that as an example there like we didn't know what the story was when we were first. There we were just being present, trying to capture it through our eyes. And so we sort of retroactively cook away, what we could, but I think moving
00:25:00
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Forward in May we want to take any of these insights. Maybe we want to go and capture something more bespoke or higher quality or improved in a way with this learning effectively to then help inform the next phase of that production because yeah, we were just sort of admittedly just in in the space trying to get as much as we can. But I think now we know better so we want to get document those learnings and maybe we can dive into that Travis though, at stage
Cassandra Gray: Oh awesome. Thank you. Trent did any I did have my head up but I changed my mind. I don't talk about it. Oh, that's that. I just decided that I answered my own question. Doesn't anyone else have anything from this section? Otherwise we can mosey on
Cassandra Gray:  Cool. All right. If I click here, does it just go there? It does amazing. Cool. So, Interact MR. This one basically seems to be about increasing either increasing like the amount of mixed reality. Content in in the design or like interactions, the kind of the spatial content. So I guess again, just hit the hands up button and we'll just go in order of First, and best dressed. Unless no one was, this is also the Things we should keep doing Section, I believe. So it may not even be. We might not need that much discussion and might just be like a. Yep, good job. We did that. Carry on.
Lucas Hehir: I didn't write any of these cards, but it seems a little bit of a trend of people liking interactivity. I probably should have put a card of that. I also like interactivity, but it's interesting to think that I wonder Trent and be good to hear your feedback. Do you feel like interactivity
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, it's a good question. I guess to the previous point, like, say the watershed I like, How hard was that versus the interaction from it? And then, we're kind of nailed into just interacting with water. This is the point cloud interaction, that then could be applied across all assets at a point cloud. And so, yeah, people loved, you know, the touch interact with the totems and the cast, fairy was really good. But then I guess they couldn't do it with a Cassandra in the butterfly in the tree, came in later at the end, but I think there's definitely a lot of magic there. Even with the controllers, like the right was only able to be interacted with. So there's definitely a few takeaways, maybe even ditching the controllers that would be magical I guess initially the thought was like, What if you saw the little mushroom and then that's how you triggered the content in a way like that interactivity could be
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Done in a simple kind of scalable way, but yeah, people loved it but I don't know if I'd compare like that with the 180 video. Yeah, it's interesting to go benchmark, those side by side, and what the benefit would be. Yeah, be really good to take that away. And Yep.
Lucas Hehir: Yeah.
Cassandra Gray:  Awesome. I was gonna write something similar to this and I also didn't I just I I love next reality stuff and so I'm always like more awesome. All right, if no one, has anyone else anything else about that? We'll talk to the next one. Oh yeah, go ahead. Whoever that was
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah, I guess like it just let's call it out. Like we're building a mixer reality experience or you know, prototype them or whatever point. But it's mixed reality. First similar to like, how we would think my ball first. But first, we should think about the diet, the paradigm, Lucas reality, I think, sometimes we're getting caught up in, you know, with sticking VR into their mark. But really we, that's why we benefit of tapping into the room API. I was so critical, because then you could then join those two worlds together. But ultimately, the whole thing, the experience itself is used reality. So just people would be good. Think about that deeply, you know, like we can take advantage of the actual scene that you're walking around in to the advantage of the walls and things beyond, but nothing in your immediate place then. So it's mixed reality land. So I just want things like, Yes, I think about this continue the parad.
00:30:00
Rayyan Roslan:  Pushing the experience layer for my mom.
Cassandra Gray: yeah, I think that there's also does tie back in to What like my initial card? I think that I had on here, which was about keeping the play space in mind. Like, I think that if we had of had more mixed reality, like, sort of assets and stuff in the experience, this time, we would have really struggled with the three, my three by three meter space and now we already did a little bit. So I think that it's just even more important if we want to include more mixed reality stuff to have, like a minimum viable amount of space that we can have. And like, I know, It can be like a little daunting sometimes to go to events and go. What we need at least as much space, but I found in my experience that most of them are pretty accommodating, especially if you've got a cool experience, which, you know, not that I'm biased but I think we've got a pretty cool experience.
Cassandra Gray:  Um, and so yeah, just it becomes sort of more and more important to think about the real world in conjunction with that content. Cool. Is anyone else have anything they want to add?
Cassandra Gray:  Any like, the I can't remember what show it's from where. It's like, didn't and yeah hands up, because
Lucas Hehir: That was me. I was thinking advancing, sana, I guess you don't have to sort of speak to it, but like it sounds like sentient sentience. This that kind of messed me up. Sentence is like it is an interesting concept going forward, but I I think I would be surprised if it was actually really difficult in practice to build stuff like that. There was a lot of potential there. What do you think? Sana.
Sana Siddiqui: Yeah, the the reason why I wrote exploring, it's more like we need to explore what we can do. Like I I just, you know, played around with it to the capacity that I could, but it would be great if I could get help from, you know, the design team or just anyone from the team to be like Oh what if we could do this or that? And then I kind of explore. If it can be done or Like, I'm kind of glad we put our foot in and, you know, started exploring it. Now we know like the basics. If we keep like diving into it, further, we know what can be done, what can be done.
Cassandra Gray: Yeah. Totally. And I think it approach that I would like to take if we do have more attraction time which we should, there's an absolutely zero reason. We should have less per production time with with a longer deadline is before One of the things that I would like to do before we go into that is to identify what areas we want to explore. Like I know that some things will you can't dictate pre-production too much because you want to be able to experiment and figure out the design and stuff. But I think that we should identify like say, for instance, that
Cassandra Gray:  Sentientness of the Cassowaries or what have you and go. Well, this is something that we want to explore further and we go. All right. We'll obviously, you know, sana you were working on that in the initial demo, but you think it would be good if you could get like Allen and Lucas or whoever to help you with that? And then we can go. All right? Well, let's set aside a week of time or whatever to explore, the castle area or explore hand trucking or explore. You know, just to see how we can get those things working. It's it's just a fool that I had something. I think it would be helpful but and again we can talk about that as we go into planning. I'm going forward. it'd be good if everyone could just like either have to think about whether you think that's a good idea or not, or have a think about Things that you would like to put forward, as exploration points, if that kind of makes sense.
Trent Clews-de Castella: What? One example, there's a moment I was showing this woman and she was afraid of birds and then she tried to run away from the casquery and then they followed her and the cross where she was at coincidentally. But that was a pretty awesome moment where she thought it was interacting with her. And obviously, she was bit scared, but also having a laugh at the same time and I feel like maybe at the beginning, we maybe overcomplicated because it is such an ambiguous thing like What is sentience when it's like feeling like something's just where that your present in the same space, right? And so having that cast very track you like it feels like special. If we go down the path of avatars or maybe Richard is a ghostly silhouette as he's telling you the story and he's looking at you like that. To me is is what jumps out the most of all the Mr Experiences I've tried where there's actually just eye contact with whatever that might be and kind of starting there rather than how do I interact and feed the bird or chase it just feeling like it recognizes
00:35:00
Trent Clews-de Castella:  And I think that would just be a really kind of key starting point because it's something we could take to every single thing that we bring in you know dolphin doing the same thing doesn't necessarily have to be as kind of custom sequence but just like eye tracking to the user. In that sense is very powerful.
Cassandra Gray: Totally, I know that's the sort of thing that hopefully we could use that exploration time to discover. So that's really cool. One time I worked on is a space thing and we put a woman who was afraid of space and she fell off the chair and started crying in my defense. I don't know why she decided she wanted to do that VR experience. Um but yet which traumatized her pretty bad. Cool. Was there any other things I want to talk about this or we're ready to move on to the next section?
Rayyan Roslan: Cassandra's just on your point of like um working working you know on certain areas.
Cassandra Gray:  Traumatizing people. Sorry gone.
Rayyan Roslan: I think one of my it's a feedback was it would have been great to have more amplification on on things. So say Allen enzyme both attacking the cassowary scene together might have got further, might have been more defined and vice versa for the water interaction. Then we'll be kind of split into these multi us, very solo, kind of things and they can get caught up in their own. Whereas, we can probably split up into pairs and teams to conquer a bit better, and quicker. I think that would be good. Yeah. So necessarily like doing things,…
Cassandra Gray: Yeah, for sure.
Rayyan Roslan: like, I forget would be more Beneficial to be amplified and working together principally.
Cassandra Gray:  yeah, and then like the way that I would do it is you just time box that you say, all right, you've got a week to spend exploring the customary stuff, a little full stuff and then at the end of the week, you've sort of got your findings and even if you come back and go, well, Even if you haven't completely explored everything, there is to explore about Castleberry, you sort of have a better idea of whether it's something you want to pursue going forward or at the or like how you would pursue it going forward, like whether it's a big job, small job, whatever. And so yeah, I think that that's a, I think it's a good idea but let's let's move on because we three minutes maybe if we try and do like one more and then we can maybe organize another meeting to chat about the rest of them like tomorrow or something with that work for people.
Lucas Hehir: It sounds good.
Samuel Tate: I was going to say like, with a five minute break even I could easily do. Like I was just saying Travis and Ray, we can do a session tomorrow anyway because there's been a few big sessions today also happy to reschedule as well…
Cassandra Gray: All right.
Samuel Tate: but just like you know we're here. It's the problem space with everyone. Happy to like, take five.
Cassandra Gray:  I, Don't you need to go into your other media for 15 months.
Samuel Tate: The morning is good and then More time with everyone…
Cassandra Gray: Okay.
Samuel Tate: but that's only I'm pretty. I've got pretty high endurance from many festivals.
Cassandra Gray:  That's fine by me. But like we, regardless of what we do we can take, we're going to take a five minute break. But does anyone have any other meetings coming up anything you need to go do or absolutely? No shame. This has been a really long meeting if you would rather us maybe come back like tomorrow and continue the discussion. Then I don't think we're gonna lose too much if we do that. What do people think?
Cassandra Gray:  I have to continue. All right, well, let's carry on. Let's slick. Let's have a five minute break till like,
Cassandra Gray: I can't read my thing. What time is it? Full 13. I don't know. Let's yeah, let's go. Like, I don't know for 18 or 19 whatever. Yeah, well it's gonna say 420 And…
Samuel Tate: Maybe, even 420.
Cassandra Gray: I was like, That's the way number people gonna love.
Samuel Tate:  Blah.
Cassandra Gray: All right, let's have a quick break. Go have a drink of water, I don't know. I'm going to go reset my brain. Hopefully
Samuel Tate:  Blazer.
Cassandra Gray:  Later. Yeah.
00:40:00
Cassandra Gray: Healing on the Reactions button this in.
00:45:00
Samuel Tate: No, I'm just a little like doing a proof of life. but, Attempt back.
Cassandra Gray:  We still got a whole minute.
Samuel Tate: And was like, I've just been f****** around on the Internet. And I step back and was like, everyone's also just like at the computer still
Cassandra Gray: Well. In my, in my break, I have done some crucial important networking with the Games industry. No, I got invited to the Meetup for the Interactive Games and Association made up on Thursday. Um so…
Samuel Tate: Oh, that's cool.
Cassandra Gray: if that's all right, I will do that. I like 1:30. On Thursday.
Samuel Tate:  Is it a? It'd be cool. Like yeah, maybe would is it something that People would go to. If we have time.
Cassandra Gray:  No. It's like a so Ray lane who's one of the, like, I don't know, she's the CEO or what her title is but of Igi is in town. And so when she does that, she just invites like a
Cassandra Gray: Like people to, she knows.
Samuel Tate: Oh cool. The industry.
Samuel Tate: Industry club like the Not a Meetup.com Meetup.
Cassandra Gray: So it's just it's like it's not like a like in like exam kind of made up it's like a violating inviting the people that she Likes to connect with in the industry, really? And I know each other from when I was the chairperson of the New Zealand Game Jobs Association. So that's,…
Samuel Tate: Yeah, that is networking.
Cassandra Gray: that's how it school is in. What?
Samuel Tate: That's sick. I thought I thought you meant like meetup.com style, like, you…
Cassandra Gray: No no no.
Samuel Tate: but that's cool.
Cassandra Gray: It's a I didn't even know what was happening and then I got named all about it and I was like Oh yeah.
Cassandra Gray:  You guys really missed out on like Pete Cass. I was much cooler when I was like running Game Dev Association so that was like That was like, the closest I've ever been to being famous.
Cassandra Gray:  Well, in my life is a lot less stressful. Now, I will say that
Cassandra Gray: Oh, no, I've definitely painted grateful. And that's like, not even a sorry. Like when I was in grade four in, like, at least intelligence wise, I we have like, you know, spelling groups at school. I was so far ahead of the rest of my class and spelling that they put me in my own spelling group, and now I can't spell anything. Like I just I I paint doesn't intelligent child, like grade four and then I sort of just plateaued and and then like, Yeah, I was good.
Lucas Hehir: And we're back.
Cassandra Gray: I was doing like a bit of a therapy session. While everyone was away. That's what happens. If you don't take you, you designated break time, then you have to listen to me reflect on my childhood.
Cassandra Gray: You know that I never got to do a spelling. Very I really, I won't start a therapy thing. The SAM mentions spelling base so I didn't do it. Start this. He don't like I think in a Melbourne you can like…
Lucas Hehir: I didn't even know. We spelling business Australia.
Cassandra Gray: but where I was we didn't do that, I always wanted to because I was like I will crush this.
Cassandra Gray:  I didn't, I mentioned spelling, I didn't mention spelling bees
Cassandra Gray: How we all back that has anyone not here?
Samuel Tate: I'm not sure.
Cassandra Gray: Speak up, if you're not here.
Lucas Hehir: I'm not.
Cassandra Gray:  Hahaha. I'm so funny. All right, let's just started. I could do a roll call. I could be fun. Lucas, you're here because you're just being smarter. Um, Ray I can see you here. Trent's here. Travis here. Sam's here. Sonica a thumbs up. Allen here.
Allen Lu: Yeah, I'm here.
Cassandra Gray:  Allen today. Lexi here. Lexie. Is here sick. Let's continue on. All right, so we're gonna move on from this one. Go away to
Cassandra Gray: Design. What do we got? Throwing everything out and starting in from scratch. Changing brief water concept, texture case, flea-flich story, referring to public facing product as a prototype We've already talked about. That was I wrote that that was, We've already done that. We don't need to talk about that again. Changing things that last minute, AG adding a whole heap of video on the last week. You can just do it as usual. Put your hands up, we'll do it.
Lucas Hehir: this is, Right. This is stuff right.
Cassandra Gray: Huh, what?
Travis Gemmill: Okay.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Predict that actually.
Lucas Hehir: She stop.
Travis Gemmill: Yeah, I think it's
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, I mean it's still gas.
00:50:00
Cassandra Gray: Because I Know what I'm not sharing anymore, am I?
Cassandra Gray:  it is, this isn't like a great ringing endorsement for like Cath living on her own. Like as soon as it happened, I lost my mind. So yes, sorry. As Lucas was saying, this is the things we should stop doing.
Cassandra Gray: And yeah, I guess put your hands up. We'll just go in order of of hands up. If anyone would like to, I only wrote one of these but it's not the one we need to talk about. All right,…
Travis Gemmill: Yeah, I pretty much trade the other three just, uh, yeah.
Cassandra Gray: take it away.
Travis Gemmill: So the throwing everything up inside of the scratch things on a country was to like, we definitely do like to be at the forefront of black, creating, new experiences and whatnot. But I don't know, I'd question sometimes whether We have to fully start again because I know this project in particular is like you, you guys will attended? Yeah, all that work on the Rewild mixed reality, thing for frozen and then not frozen are what oceans or whatever. And then we basically started the reap open scratch, not using any other things that we could have actually been. Even just like, prototyping with this.
Travis Gemmill:  Yeah, that's what that relates to the changing brief. Yeah, I thought it was kind of a bizarre start to when we were like blocking this out in the very early formation, not going on the trip. Like, I wasn't actually sure where a lot of the stuff was or what we actually working with. There was this idea of like this water concept of black, macro, to macro to the reef. And we kind of started, I don't know, throwing in idea of like interactive Cassandra and fungi 360 and black that was a bit called a contrast to a water concept kind of thing. Then we moved into this, like tech showcase. We're gonna like Carla and jacking and a few other things.
Travis Gemmill:  and then kind of shifted from that into using Richards video, like, Super last minute to try and like, weave it into Cohesive story, which was didn't quite work. I don't know. You had like him talking about totems of Accused Totem was something completely different. The cats were and stuff that's always weird. And then Yeah, I guess that also relates the last card which is the beer and last week
Cassandra Gray: Yeah. Tonight those are all really good points and I think it is, I mean I've said, I've said there's a few times and I don't I don't want it to sound like I'm saying, Well, you know, all of our problems come from the fact that we had a short production time because that's not true. Like, you know, there are things that like, I could have done better with production, like they're just things we need to, you know, things were, You know, you make mistakes, it's fine. Um, it is a, it is so much easier to make these mistakes when you've got that short production time because there's less time. To kind of turn around and go. Why are we doing this? Like Why is this been changed? Because you kind of just want to get it done. So I think, but that's there. There's a still You can still make those errors with a huge with a year-long production time, you know?
Cassandra Gray:  Their games that could took 10 years to make and they do the same thing. So that is something and I wrote in a different section. I think it does come into this one that we need to have a a source of truth for the project. That I mean, traditionally you'd have a game design document but I'm making a game but you could still have a design document but we need to have a source of truth. That is clearly like decided on by the team communicators to the team because we sort of had, we did it. We did have kind of a I think what was in the mirror, which was intended to be the source of truth, but there seem to be a little bit of confusion between like whether that was upstate, not up to date. Like what a changed and so sorry, Lucas, I didn't see you were saying stuff.
Cassandra Gray:  Too late to start making, it's absolutely not. I mean It's too late for Austin, but
Travis Gemmill: Yeah. Yeah. I think The intention always was to make like a fully fledged design document, but after we finish the prototyping, we kind of like complete shift. Like the whole UX. So then we went through a home, just exploration of trying to get a fully fledged design document,…
00:55:00
Cassandra Gray: Yeah.
Travis Gemmill: and then, by that stage, we're like one two weeks by away from launching those at a time.
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah, so, for at the moment for Sydney, I've got April, and May so two months blocked out as the pre-production time and like the start of that, you know, two, three, four, like the whole of April, in theory for the design, team can be building that production dot the production document design document and building that out and and things like that because we've got the time to actually do it and do it properly and then if we've got that design document, we've got that sort of truth and we have to make sure that it is maintained an updated because that's the biggest obstacle and hurt all that. I see teams do is once you get into production once you get more into the weights, people just
Cassandra Gray:  Like there's more important things to do than updating the design document and that's where you can kind of trip over in that situation but yeah I think it would be a really good idea to to do that going forward and in theory, Sorry, Sam I will. I do see you with your hand up in theory. You could retroactively Create a design document for Austin. The potentially could help going forward but it may not be worth the time. It'll be always like doing a postmortem for it, which we may not have the time for on a really sure but Sam, sorry.
Samuel Tate: Yeah, I think. you know, I I do like, like all it's like I'm sure every developer has a better version of their their, you know, code docs or whatever, like I wanted In an ideal world. There's a static document that is is like this is the design document of this fate at this phase. And that was that first PowerPoint.
Samuel Tate: And it was pretty. Like in that format. And then yeah, we did shift things, pretty wide and pretty like Yeah, we kind of shifted modes again. so, I think that it's something that, like, I can take responsibility for not in the sense of like, Ah, make a copper but more like trying to drive that be across it, be responsible for the
Samuel Tate:  Accuracy of it. And then my only request in return is if people aren't sure like hey this looks a bit out of date like if you're, you know, two weeks into a sprint wheel like I don't have the dots I need to do it just To talk to me. Like, I'm just a person trying to like, you know, like we all. And then I guess on the flip side is like, you know, and actually actually think that it was done really well to be honest, is that Trent Ray Joe Slick. When you guys came back, you did engage with those design documents. That we did do really well and that would shifted the feedback and that was actually really good. And I the mistake I made there is that I shared the updated storyboard called Slack because I just
Samuel Tate: Was being selected to be honest. And that's, I'm sure we can all relate to that at some point. So, yeah, but the goal is like snapshot design documents and also I think we know Mario works really well, but I think we can do better. I can do better at least in managing and maintained one. And I will commit to that with the other designers, but I can commit to driving it, but if everyone else can commits asking,…
Cassandra Gray: I mean.
Samuel Tate: me, can't find it.
Cassandra Gray: I do think.
Cassandra Gray:  when you say static you mean like Set in in place, right? Like like,
Samuel Tate: a fixed document a different stages where it's like this is like it's about a slideshow or something that's like and it could be in my road technically but something that's like, you know, it's not a working document that it'll change the next day.
Cassandra Gray: Yeah. Say I Kind of maybe I don't know if disagrees the word, but I think, I don't know. Maybe this is just because I coming for like because I've recently come from a games background like Traditionally, what you would do there is you have one document that is the standing design document for the entire like, and you do have someone like, you multiple people can edit it, but I guess you would have one person who is like responsible, you know what person, you know, most people, the one person needs to be like, the, you know, the maintainer of the design document. But then, what you would do in instead of having snapshot documents or static documents, is that, you have to make sure that at the top of it, you document when it's been edited and changed and what's been changed and almost like a Woman here.
Samuel Tate: Like a repo.
Cassandra Gray: Let's see. Like a repo that's…
Cassandra Gray: what I'm looking for.
Samuel Tate: Yeah, no,…
Samuel Tate: it's it's a good point. I'd be happy to try that like Show.
Cassandra Gray: Well, because the problem with static documents is that, that's what you can get confusion. Then if people somehow, and this can totally be an accident, it's not the purposeful thing people read the wrong document,…
Samuel Tate:  Mmm.
Cassandra Gray: people don't know. There's an updated document. If you've got one link that you can pin to the top of the thing that you can share, people can talk market. Then that's the one document that is the source of truth for everything and is it different from version history. I don't know. It's
01:00:00
Samuel Tate: It's more like the approach. We have like, version history exists, but maybe that's a mistake. I've been making is trying to say Here's the design V1, pulling it out of the working document into a static document as a way of trying to solve this problem. But it's actually compounding in a bit where it's like, That's confusing. Because now that you're saying, it's something that I've more do with clients, which makes sense because, you know, they need the key is the Little thing in a box. so, it's like, Inside. Yeah, we could have version control and just rely on that and it does become a bit like it maintaining whoever's maintaining the main build and kind of the same thing where it's like your job to make sure Masters up to date. But there's also no reason we can't have and this raised. So we need to do this more anyway, but in the Myro, like, archiving stuff, so you can see a bit of that history, visually and some sort of like way of
Samuel Tate:  Tracking, where it's up to.
Cassandra Gray:  You can still have like sorry I will get here in a second. Lucas, you can still have Tomorrow and stuff like that. You just let you. Then what you would have is you'd have up the top. You'd have like, you know, here's the, your design document version, one point four and then you tell you have the and this can get a little unwieldy is like the say, April 1st Sam, you know, updated the
Cassandra Gray:  Cassandra sections, all by caspers say guys, updated the Cassandra design section. So people know that that's, you know, been changed on this particular day and then under that you often would have, you can either have it there, you can have at the end, like a link section where you'd have, like, here's the link to the mirror is the You Know, link to the asana. Blah blah. Um Lucas.
Lucas Hehir: and such a great check about in for like,
Lucas Hehir: The specification for the app and I've come across a document. And then in retrospect, it stand out. Oh, this whole document is actually archive, but it's not looking at this anymore. But it's there and I'm still finding it and it's still floating around. It can be really hard to maintain. On the
Cassandra Gray: I'm not sure about slight but doesn't Google docs just kind of automatically do that. because I,…
Lucas Hehir:  I think it does. Yeah, Google Docs does.
Cassandra Gray: I've always used Google Docs for Good design documents. But I know that we use flights and maybe there's something similar. So,
Samuel Tate: well, two things like the design document being in slight is Is definitely. I know it's preferred in some ways but I think part of it is because
Samuel Tate: The way Myer has been managed in the past, I think that we could manage the Myro as a living design document if it's structured properly. And so it's got the, you know, that the each domain in section and it structured that way and then it's a bit like maintaining or happy to be slight. But it does create this extra. It also creates an extra layer of friction. And is it on my or is it the slight whatever? Which clear action here. The Action Chat GPT is to define the documentation process for everyone so that everyone knows where stuff is. But it's a bit like maintaining the latest version of files in a in a folder for like content…
Cassandra Gray: Yeah.
Samuel Tate: where it's like and I've tried to enforce this before where it's like you should be able to go to that folder and trust that's the latest video and it's the person who's responsible, maintaining I think we can do the same thing with my role.
Cassandra Gray:  The thing. The thing that I will push back against. Yeah, that's right. Yeah, sana's, right. And they do have a bookmarks up. The thing I would push back against using Myra as the as like, Where the design document is, is that Mario at the end of the day, is like a whiteboard. and like, I don't know if you sort of picture using a real live whiteboard as a design document.
Cassandra Gray:  Um, like the problem that things, the problem that I have with using my own that way is that if you're using like Google Docs or I mean, yeah, it gets cluttered if you're using Google docs or probably slight as well. My brain can't remember at the moment but like, you can have like the headings of the side, which sort of, or you can have, like, maybe you can do this mirror, but you can have like, the contents page and stuff. Whereas, in mirror, I find, at least, I kind of have to scroll around and go away. Is that it? I don't know if that's it. I'll scroll back out. It's like massive and it can be, it's just neater, I think, in, like slight or, or Google Docs, but, like, you can. I know you say, I had some friction, but you can just link out and go. This is where the mirror is. Go ahead.
01:05:00
Samuel Tate: Yeah, that's a good point and we did get to that phase where it's like, the slight. The thing is like, Yeah, let's let's have a workshop on it. I think what they're in the answer, like all about to say it's just Considering that combo. So let's figure it out. I'd love some help because it's hard because sometimes it's the same with like writing. I'm sure tech docks or whatever where it's like I could spend a lot of time on something that then doesn't get used or then gets Like over. Written by something else. What do you know what I mean? It's like it does take a lot of energy to make a design that then might not get used or might be out of date. But let me do it some you know. So like I'm yeah. yeah, just
Cassandra Gray: Yeah, that's totally fine. And yeah, it looks I'm the same like if I'm coming into a mirror later I'm like, I don't know how this works. Um, cool. All right, if no one else hasn't it doing? How's the hands up? Wait, do I skip anymore? We might jump on to the next section because yeah, I think Samuel right the action pointing for that as you've already said it, but we just need to have like a workshop. A workshop to kind of go over the documentation and stuff, but I will. I've got someone we just did. All right, we're on to the five votes section. How do we Do it. Do we do every single? One, or we just,
Cassandra Gray:  Right. We'll see how we go. All right, so this one is new feature. This is the things we should start doing. And this is new features. Some of this we have already talked about. We've already sort of talked about maybe having more mixed reality. I won't read over these again, but again, I went right over them. But again, Hit the hands Up, section hands up button and we'll just go in order of Who wants to chat about stuff?
Cassandra Gray:  Or if someone doesn't just wants to start talking, feel free, right?
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah, like my point was the roof in the floor. I think we you know work on around out of time. We focused on one wall use one scene but I think the benefit is is every wall is the one saying, right. We're really just typing into the mixed reality environment. And one sensation that we should explore is definitely the roof like you know, open your roof, you open the dimension of you're looking up, you can kind of get that in the mushroom scene but then you're also just stuck in. It's like,
Rayyan Roslan:  Three notes saying is I guess like this kind of lends into, Let's really explore the room API, There's so much there is more to design and develop and create within that and that kind of leads to mixed reality. And then the other thing I was just gonna say is like Yeah and tracking you know controllers for this experience might be the best because we don't need to grab and pick up stuff. You don't need to shoot stuff, you just need to kind of like, you know, a family touch stuff. So, maybe hang tracking would be this there. They would like to explore and everything else. Beyond one more.
Cassandra Gray: Yeah, Lexi.
Aleksei Bachinskii: Yeah, some cars of mine like more focused on interaction interaction already discussed. I think another one. yeah, it's like suggestion is the next project or common project like GPU VR to create like a really I don't know, more realistic and complicated project. And Create a definitely want to see like in can realize. In more powerful. Give GPU system instead of standalone VR. Project. Yeah.
Trent Clews-de Castella: I love that. Be a big.
Samuel Tate: pcvo like,…
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah. Yeah.
Samuel Tate: just like, yeah, getting The. Yeah, it's funny because especially if we're doing Like, it'll be and
Samuel Tate:  you know, install setup by us like we, we could really be going for that as well. Like, it's
Samuel Tate: We don't, I don't have, I haven't done Pcvs stuff and I just Lucas would probably know more about it but like, I guess you need a PC per person. Let's talk about it. Sorry. But…
Lucas Hehir: it's It's per headset,…
Samuel Tate: if any one or two people yeah.
Lucas Hehir: but you your budget for graphics, just blows right out. You can draw pretty not anything you want but you can draw you'd be surprised by just how low the headroom is on mobile hardware.
01:10:00
Samuel Tate: Well, I wouldn't be, but yeah. I'd be surprised how high they've had room is on pcvx. Haven't done it. But like, you…
Lucas Hehir: Yeah.
Samuel Tate: I was playing No man's sky was incredible. And that might be where we can get that like you know if it's only two people but it's getting that full hdrp ray that stuff even looking at like all the sudden opens up. like, Yeah, that maybe is the game changer. I don't know.
Rayyan Roslan: Like do you think it's going to be for this format and…
Trent Clews-de Castella: that's,
Rayyan Roslan: this headset? And like the Quest pro I stand like I would say that that could be for a different system entirely the Badger. Okay it's five. Like, it just feels like we're just extending something. Whereas we could do, you know, more hands-free mixed reality multiplayer stuff, you don't have cables everywhere. It just I just platform first before we go down like PC VR Like to install.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Which is to build on that. I guess it's hard to pick up platform if for instance Meta funds it or you know we want to pitch it up or so let's just think in the year this won't happen for this final bill but we're definitely his company and going towards what Apple's got cooking up in the kitchen and all drawing a question. You know, for instance would that even without even have a PC VR option, probably not an imagined. Maybe the I guess it's definitely beholden to the partners that we would get behind. So say, we trying to get better in for
Trent Clews-de Castella:  South by Sydney and then having something that could be the best showcase in terms of quality. Then yeah, justifies it for sure, but then another is throughput, right? Like if we need $5,000 machine alongside it then it's not probably feasible to have 10 of those in the space for instance. And so yeah, I think a lot of really good questions and maybe ideally for this phase
Trent Clews-de Castella:  We would have a maybe it approach where we make the highest quality and then we throw a lot back for wireless, you know, stand alone. I mean but then yeah we could do a demo to Showcase. Get buy-in for scaling. Everything up to the highest res. Just one thing for me was the hand tracking, I just think something Samuel's pointing out and feel confusing. Sometimes if I'm triggering a portal or something, it's easier with the controller in hand. But literally, if I'm just moving through the space, like no one needs controls, we gave them the controllers because it would then bug out. If we had them on the side, the boundary and stuff. But if I'm just purely standing someone especially to trigger it and then my interactions is really just Running my hand through the content.
Trent Clews-de Castella:  I think it'd be so much more magical doing that with my hands then with controllers I feel like that would be a really good takeaway into the next one is if we keep going down this path and there's no real deep interaction it's just hand tracking to touch to then trigger something then that's that's definitely consider hands as a yeah optimal I think you x there
Cassandra Gray: Awesome. Cool. All right. Was a any thing else anyone wanted to jump in on for the section?
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah. Who wrote multiplayer because I guess like we're thinking that multiplayer, but we never build a multiplayer thing. You who wrote that will be also to some play that real quick.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, that's me. I just think having people in this space together going as a group being able to unpack it afterwards, being able to see someone in the space. It's different obviously, with the, the way of triggering content, and then being in different scenes, But say, for instance, if I could just see the presence of someone in my scene, whether or not any interact with them, we'll see what they're looking at. It would be better from a throughput so I could then see there at actual avatar and person say, if I mean a 360 scene or something, obscuring it. So yeah, having a ability to like a special anchor and share and Cara would be great from an easy. Throughput
Cassandra Gray: Multiplayer is so scared. So much more like double the potential for things to go wrong.
Lucas Hehir: Yeah, I just yeah, Cassandra's 100% right? Like it's a little bit technical backflip like there's a lot of if we're having trouble getting process some of our processes right? No no. We're far after Mark but like we want to be so restrict with development. If we were going to try and do multiplayer, it can be a I mean as we saw with rewild in Singapore, London and stuff or Bristol, it was a bit of logistical nightmare but it's definitely possible. I think it does. It bring a lot to the experience. Yeah, Hereford.
01:15:00
Samuel Tate: Oh, you're always gonna say? I 100% agree. And I think like we need to commit to I'm doing a book on ADHD and it's like Don't try harder, try different. So we need to commit to whatever is we need to do differently to get Untangle, some of these design things and it's, you…
Cassandra Gray: so,
Samuel Tate: but Because, yeah, multiplayer hard. But as it's exponentially harder, it's also exponentially more powerful. And that's the thing, it's like thinking back to, like, one of the biggest things about real world was that it was multiplayer and it wasn't even that multiplayer, you know, but like that's feeling that people were in together was like, You know, with multiplayer in their heads and yeah, we would just like that would, it would just take things to another level like Which is obvious. But just, that was something I was thinking about, with real world is like, well, we really made something nuts with real world freaking hard. And
Samuel Tate:  but yeah, it like that shared reality, made it so much more real to people.
Cassandra Gray: Lucas.
Lucas Hehir: Um this is a bit of a long pitch, so stick with me here. Do you remember that Sam? Do you remember way back in the day we used to have like a separate R&D project, the VR stuff and the whole idea of it was we sort of put cutting edge or bleeding edge, stuff in that, and sort of worked out the problems in isolation. And then when it came time to implement that, in a plant-facing project, we sort of like replicated that R&D project. And then just took out, just kept the bits that you needed. And you knew that we're going to work or be experimental because you're already sort of been figuring that out ahead of the game. I like the idea of We've stopped doing that ages ago. I think it's like in 2018, but I feel like it worked really well. You sort of like, test things out and sort of try things like multiplayer and isolation without worrying about deadlines and things. And then when it time, came time to actually use it, you sort of new it was proven or not.
Cassandra Gray: Lucas, he read my mind. I was literally about to say, That.
Cassandra Gray:  Generally like my what might like this is just you know based online experience and stuff. What I would say is like Let's now Let's like nail the single player experience with Sidney first. But like generally what like I've seen done in the past is basically what you just said is have the like particularly when I was a wedding when we first went. All right, we've done single player. Let's try doing multiplayer. We had like yeah, like a team of devs who are like and again it was easier, it went up because we had magically it was backing us and they gave us just an absurd amount of freedom to do almost whatever we wanted but we said All right. He's a team. You guys go and nail multiplayer but it's not for it's over a project. It's not for I mean it did turn out to end up being turned into a project because it was amazing but like there's no time pressure and that's not to say we didn't give them a deadline. It was more like take three months and just figure out multiplayer, nyla. It's not gonna affect anything like if
Cassandra Gray: I got it working, we're not going to collapse or anything, but yeah, right.
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah, nice. Yeah, definitely. Second that in terms of like yeah, let's find some R&D time. I guess there's probably some better terminology and kind of definitions that we should outlay here like multiplayer experience versus just like a shared experience that you can start at the same time with four people at the same time.
Rayyan Roslan:  And then they all have the same thing. Walk back out there, that was cool and they all did it together is a bit different, right? So we could maybe even just clarify what that is because when I think multiplayer I'm thinking like you're playing again together all at the same time. You get to interact with objects together at the same time. You know this big difference there, I give things very well. We couldn't do that, I'm sure together. That's pretty much here so that extent. So it's just yeah, we could define that I'm all for it. I love it. It's just yeah, I'm with cast words. Like we just need to really make sure that we're not going down a path of making, something crazy without the research and development.
Cassandra Gray: Lucas.
Lucas Hehir: Um yeah, from like a technically. Speaking multiplayer means something quite specific. It's talking about the apps are aware of each other and they literally talk back and forth to share information. Rewild actually did have more than the burning. You could also see each player's position. It was basically a kind of like a first-person shooter or something you could see each other and in real time it didn't really come into it but it was part of the experience. So yeah, we should be careful about terminology here because multiple means something very specific. It's not an ambiguous term.
Samuel Tate: But in my dream. Well with multiplayer with this is there is um, some element of shared like like you said, see other player. What's interesting with that is that it was a line and you can see the other player, it wouldn't have to be sequenced because you just be using them as like an occlusion mask or something, but they can be seeing something different to you. It's just something I thought I had and then second phase would be if the sequence the chapters could be sequence together. Like you know, which is a massive design consideration itself…
01:20:00
Cassandra Gray: but, Yeah.
Samuel Tate: because it's like, who decides and blah blah but It also.
Lucas Hehir: yeah, that
Samuel Tate: Hey chat. GPT make an action. Do a multiplayer workshop. I don't know if this work, by the way, I have something to notes but I'm going to give it a crack.
Cassandra Gray:  I mean even if we listen to the transcript, it'll still have us in there going. Here's an action point. So that's, you know, better than nothing. I am gonna wait, Lucas, we're gonna say something. I do want to, we kind of getting into a workshop here when I need to, okay, moving
Cassandra Gray: Cool. Alright, so any last things from that section not specifically about multiplayer. All right, cool. Let's move on to Nope,…
Samuel Tate: One thing,…
Cassandra Gray: that's what.
Samuel Tate: it's sorry, just a tiny one. Connected to it, all just more interactivity and logic gameplay. But it's progression. Things like that. Just in general, I think we like it seems really big and scary. Because it's harder and more complicated, but it goes so far compared to like a piece of art, but anyway, that's it.
Cassandra Gray: Thank you, production. This is me. This is my area. Um, I think I only wrote like one of these cards which is really funny. Um, what do we go working past, QA Cutoff point? We've already sort of discussed that entering production before design finalized, I was hoping for timeline working over time increasing scope of content. So I, Am going to talk to this a little bit before I throw it, open to the crowd, just some of this. Anyway, we've sort of already talked a bit about and which is a card that I had, I don't know where it's ended up. I don't know the card somewhere that was about how we need to kind of delineate, pre-production and production and then someone's got something here that entering production before the design is finalized, we've kind of already talked about it. I do just want to really reinforce that
Cassandra Gray:  Like I I know that it's hard in a short production thing, but going forward when we've got the longer ones, it you we cannot like I know like you can make change like every product changes. As you build it, that's not that's totally unavoidable. But like, there needs to be You know, it's that process for that happening and we cannot be ideating. The project project as we're building it because that's where you get like the confusion between. Like what is supposed to? What are we supposed to be building? What's supposed to go in it? Like What mechanics do we need to have available? You know, you kind of can get into a thing where I'm not saying it's actually happened but like, you know, for instance the engineers can be building the mechanics and by the time they finished it, we're going well actually we want to do this thing different instead and it just does not
Cassandra Gray:  it just doesn't work and we can't like we have to have like and we talked about the design document but we have to have some kind of set design available before we go into production and before we start building the proper, not not doing the prototypes not doing like the The exploration. But when we're building the actual product, we need to have a design set in stone and we can have reviews and we can go. Hey this isn't working. Let's try something else but that needs to be like a group decision kind of thing. and then I'll just, I will talk a little bit as well about Overscoping, I do I do think that we definitely overscoped for this project. I know that we were trying to do, they kind of feel a lot in but we and and this is something that I still kind of kick myself a little bit for not pushing back further on, is that we I really strongly feel that we were trying to do too much.
Cassandra Gray:  For the timeline that we had, and It can be like and on the one hand I go and this isn't this meeting isn't supposed to be about people like me going, Oh my stuffed up. This is you know blah because you know I think I did the best with what I could. But at the same time, Like it is sometimes hard for me to push back and go I guess, I don't know. I've been here for nine months and I feel like I shouldn't be How questioning these things anymore? But then, sometimes I do get kind of, like, well, I don't know if I can go. Like I don't know if I have the authority to go. We're just it's too much to go cut some of it out. Yeah. I mean like Like and it's not at the end of the day, it shouldn't just be my decision. But What I even really know what I'm trying to say. I think I'm getting back into a therapy session, I apologize for that to someone else. Want to say something, I just I feel like we were discards and I feel like I should have said something more assertively and I didn't
01:25:00
Samuel Tate: I'll just like reinforce that and hit enter on this because basically gonna say, like, I know from my own life experience that I'm constantly thinking I can do more in a certain amount of time. And we after week month after month, like if I don't pull back on, what I'm trying to do, I end up burnt out, hitting my hand with the nail while. The sun's going down, blah blah, and the same is true for my work. And when that I pull back on what I think I can do like in terms of the range, I end up in a state of flow grace and I, the less footprint I aim for the wider. I take it and I think that's true for all of us. We all have our eyes bigger than our stomach generally, and I think we all need to be like and I'm sana one time I was like, How do I stop going taking us out of scope and I was like taking my minutes, take it, you know, content density. It's not just about how long it takes to make the video or whatever. It's just the footprint of what we're going.
Samuel Tate: For the bigger it is the more we have to fix and bug test and why does that not figure that or whatever? So just like To your point cast of pushing it back. I have been both a person that sets the scope way too far and also been someone that's championed for pulling it back. I don't think there's a fixed answer to it but I think that as a rule of thumb trying to do less than we think we need to Surely up the five years of realizing. We're trying to do that one too many scenes and being like, Hey can we tell the client We need to do one? Let's see, less like it's just like just as a rule of thumb, we should probably try and do. 30% Less than we think we can. And that's what I'm trying to do in everything in life to stop myself, from hitting my hand,…
Cassandra Gray: Yeah.
Samuel Tate: with a hammer at the end of the day because I tried to build too many planter boxes.
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah, yeah. Totally Um, Lucas. I do give you permission to mirror the above. Sorry. I just read through it, if you need help. Let me know. That's fine. You, you're welcome to do that.
Cassandra Gray:  Also, let's say we're talking about Overscaping. I think, I mean, I don't think Like as a producer. I think I just need to go to do is it's the classic like Yes but thing, right? Yes, we can do all this. But am I gonna lose all the stuff down the track? If that makes sense. Like Like, I don't know, I just need to make my thoughts better known because we did we oversized and The problems that we had. Worded out of our control, in terms of late unity, having a very weird huge bug that stopped our things but I do. I do think we still, I think we're trying to do a little bit too much at the time we had and I think that it's also sorry. So let you talk into a second.
Cassandra Gray:  I think we are in a way kind of victims to this is a really backhanded complement. I apologize. But like, we're all very good at our jobs like everyone here. You know, Forum makes amazing experiences like we smashed out I mean I say way I wasn't involved in any shape or form but like you know smash out special fusion that was amazing. You know, we've done all these other amazing projects often on really timelines and 99% of the time. We come out of it was something incredible and you know that's great and and yes, sometimes maybe like they're like this I don't know. But like, maybe there's over time involved, maybe whatever.
Cassandra Gray: But I think that that does mean that it's, you know, it's very easy for us to go. Well, you know, we've done this before like we've smashed it and then sometimes you run into things that it's like, oh crap. We've got this big old stool in front of us. So I think in a way like the fact that we are so good at our jobs, does sometimes make it harder for us to see maybe the hurdles coming. Ahead. And what's and yeah, sorry, I said I'd let you talk and…
Samuel Tate: Oh no.
Cassandra Gray: then I spoke for another
Samuel Tate: That's yeah, yeah. And that's the thing is like, we're really there's no limit to what we can do in the quality and I actually think we like at the start of the project I was like, Oh this is more than I was expecting. For those reasons of wanting to be cautious but it wasn't that much more like it was one extra say You know we're in the ballpark, our estimates getting better. I think that compared to say mountain resilience or whatever. Like we did all push back a little bit. I think you know, there were times where I think we ran it in you know, and I think that for a First version, vertical, slice like this where we're trying to find the fun doing less content, wise is a good bet to make it, you know, say for whatever, but it's always going to be hard. So that's what I think. And this is why I brought this up. When we're talking about the QA cutoff, is that failsafe of those cut off points?
Samuel Tate:  Because sometimes it's hard to know when, you know, what's gonna be bigger scope. And I think, you know, like, finding ways to To find that volume like that cost per minute. Almost is what it is, really. We'll get better at it, but then we're always going to be, you know, Like either something's bigger than we thought or whatever. So that's where those QA cutoffs in that time boxing kind of pencils down on that section acts as that safety valve.
01:30:00
Cassandra Gray: Yeah. I mean that's really like pre-production and stuff comes in. Um, but I did also just occur to me that like I wasn't I only write one of these cards and I've been talking for like five minutes. I'd actually Sam. Did you write the other? Because I just want to open the floor for whoever actually wrote those cards to Speak on,…
Samuel Tate: Yes.
Cassandra Gray: if I was.
Samuel Tate: Yeah, I did…
Cassandra Gray:  Maybe.
Samuel Tate: but there's others as well. I've said my
Cassandra Gray:  yeah, Samuel, I have talked to it does with anyone else like to like to talk.
Cassandra Gray: Not real good. But Lucas,…
Lucas Hehir: but,
Cassandra Gray: you flick around and off.
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah.
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah, I'm headed out with that. All right, cool. Let's jump to the next section because it's five. It's getting like Maybe, hopefully we can smash these out. Well, I mean this is stuff. We should start doing. Nerfs Serve your content two to three day workflow. Stereo 360 video from Unreal More Nerfs I can't read that more push on scans models need to create a good pipeline to make good quality scan it measures and use them instead of handy 3D rashes. Yeah, go ahead. Whoever it was a message. Oh yeah. Cool. Who would like to speak to these ones?
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah, I brought to them, but I'm yes. So the first ones nerves, I guess, you know, we're seeing a really big outlet in the 3D reconstruction space which was nerves. It seems, you know, kind of interesting that we haven't put any thing of that scale into this experience makes a lot of sense, I guess. So would be cool to explore that specifically looking experiology play space area. So there you walk around in makes a lot of sense. And then the next one was to stereo for video content. I think we've landed with the 180 had locked version, definitely needs refinement. And then, yes, there a 360 which I know Lexi, you've already got some minerals in how we can kind of really achieve that. So just be good to expand on those two areas.
Cassandra Gray: Cool. Anyone else otherwise which up for Yeah, let's go ahead.
Aleksei Bachinskii: Yeah, I agree like the Gray like most cereal for the future products seems like I've been talking to Developer who was created like stereo. One real, he told me like it's already done. All works in unreal, fives. So Should work in one weekend. Oh, sorry one week and it's gonna be published marketplace so we can. Get this plugin and test but it's already working. This is a good news.
Cassandra Gray: Cool.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Is massive. Means is that like see the awesome? Yeah just echo the nurse. Definitely I got Innovation of the year last year and it's not slowing down even talking about a port. Their biggest disrupter is Nerf. So we should definitely fold this in as a staple to what we create some of the latest like Nerf in Unity. Demos are pretty pretty interesting as well. So it should be a format that isn't we know performant but definitely something just to keep our eyes on. Similarly, the two to 3D workflow like we saw at glimpse at the end, from Sana with a bit of an R&D test issue is working on.
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Around photos into 3D you know some of these mechanics they can unlock. Yeah. Some different ways that we can shape the stories for instance, you know, maybe at the beginning of each episode the reef or the rainforest is the postcard and that postcard is 3D like this from simple elements there. It's like, That content pipeline if we can bring more of our content into a immersive format, it's going to change the game for us to even as an example. Now,
Trent Clews-de Castella:  The video team of testing mono drone videos and a pipeline to turn that into stereo because I saw that at South by and it was amazing. So all these things are like mono, we know is easy relatively speaking. So how do we make that immersive and build on it? So, yeah, I think that 2 to 3D workflow stereo for video is is a really good example. Even the Nerf is from a 2D video. So that's definitely a lot of good stuff in there, so, which definitely keep focus and create space to test it. Leading to the next one because I'm just apprehensive like to the past point around the scoping. It's good that we are ambitious and, you know, not so good when it burns us out, but if we only tried half as much, we would only know half as much now as well. Like we would know what you know, 360 video and unreal would look like if we didn't actually squeeze that in. And that was one of the best things that we managed to make, which is I think unlocked a whole new thing for us. So it's a bit of a pressure. Cool. And release in terms of yeah, that
01:35:00
Trent Clews-de Castella:  If we would have put the blinkers on and narrow, our focus would probably have a much better couple scenes, but we might have unlocked a whole new pipeline for the spatial studio teams as well. So we're celebrating. I think that ambition and what it's revealed to us.
Samuel Tate: Yeah, and we'll just do that. It's not about shutting one down or the other it's like dial. Ambition down, 10% and caution up 10% like we're in the bandwidth with these things. Or maybe the caution being QA.
Cassandra Gray: Ation.
Samuel Tate: But the other thing I was going to say is like the We didn't nail stereo 180 video because like the headlock thing, Like I think it's being judged on and the same with the 360 video in a sense of like it's overlapping everything because looking at the stencil masks to work because it's really, really tricky. So it's going to chuck it out to Lucas. Like you think that now that we've got a bit of breathing room, we could play with
Samuel Tate:  Getting the masking working on the oculus, native or trying something different, like the other that like conversation I had with you while I was like, You know, this works because I feel like that 180 mask behind the portal could be really.
Lucas Hehir: Yeah, totally. I was actually sort of heavily having similar thoughts. We got really close to some good solutions there. I think we sort of had to pull back just to get something going. But if we were to go back and revisit and have a really close look at the rendering stack, I think it's probably a really good solution that's that works. For what we want to do going forward, we don't need to worry about.
Cassandra Gray: Awesome, cool. All right, I reckon let's keep smashing through. Four, votes, four votes. Point cloud, unreal. This is stuff to continue doing so maybe one will need too much discussion, exploring more point Cloud, renders more and real prayer ended Video. Point Cloud aesthetic for complex scenes. More unreal renders. So more unreal. Renders more point cloud. That's the message I have taken from that, but I feel like Sanaa Aleksei. whoever else sports artists feel free to
Sana Siddiqui: Also really quickly, um, the point Cloud definitely looks great. It would just be Yeah, just be more like R&D into. I think there's a tool Travis found called FM points. It takes really neat and tidy point cloud of like 3D meshes. So yeah, just something like that to explore to. Yeah.
Cassandra Gray:  awesome. oh,
Rayyan Roslan: Nice. I've read everything else. I guess cooking us to forward point clouds because point clouds is you know in some way the kind of like underlying thread that connects the whole studio together we digitize and capture spaces and that in turn can mean that we can like manipulate, you know, really expand on that special kind of digitization and point clouds opioids, is that kind of fundamental format that I think we can push further. I reckon there's more to do more to push, like it looked good for the tree but it was pretty touching though with the cats were. So there's like what definitely to explore there and there's a fundamental highway limit but I had a really good conversation. I ask but sorry about this. With one of the experiences on the Xbox was a full point. Cloud experience that Joe has tried and talking to the developer, he was definitely pushing the
Rayyan Roslan:  Don't like how we can get VHS crafts to perform and make it, you know, generative and make it exploded and the detail and the fidelity on that point cloud in that experience, much more robust and much more large than, you know, Cassowaria tree and and, you know, something else. So it's just like against War Room to explore that, but I guess one other thing would be, How do we actually marry? The point clouds with the hot fidelity, reality capture stuff that we have. I feel like there's a fundamental art direction conversation and we need to have and cold stickly connect all those dots together because at the end, we want to prototype to different things but they can kind of stand alone in their own and so we just want to make sure that how we marry that together. I think what we got that with the whole modestone thing and ecos here. This is a little bit different. So it's just some of the think about to see more fidelity in point clouds. I mean it's more close to the hospitality reality capture but
01:40:00
Rayyan Roslan:  Gonna hit a limit, you know, because of hardware etc. And then Yeah, maybe we shouldn't go point Cloud for everything. She's cool after. What? It's good. Yep. Son.
Sana Siddiqui: And just to reiterate, I know we have that conversation but it would be good to follow up with that studio or any studios that are able to achieve, like, high fidelity. Like what are they like, What are they doing? What's her secret sauce? You know.
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah. Also I started conversation sounding but it hasn't keep it back.
Cassandra Gray: Awesome, cool. All right. Anything else on point cloud or unreal.
Cassandra Gray:  Not okay. Oh God, what product? I thought, I clicked out of the time. All right, when we're down to the one notes, now, you know, someone took the time to vote for it. So, let's just have a quick look. Um, so quick prototypes, this is things to stop doing perfect prototypes stash processes. That take time like the open missions. Adding and sound towards the end, including placeholder content ice cream, adding to a samples. The end I would imagine is about like bringing like Josh and that in earlier, but whoever would like to maybe talk about these cards feel free.
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah, two of the line, I guess I just feel like I'm just taking the mic here. Kind of want other people to study and expand on that but to these points like basically having an experience and then seeing placeholder they're all at the end it's just kind of like feels like Yeah we need a definitely understand like if a final experience has placed all our assets in there then we should really call it out as first thing change or update and I guess that's speaking to we ran out of time but that's speaking to the video that
Rayyan Roslan:  Created like a month before to, then be the last thing you see in the actual experience just like that was placeholder, right? That was something that we iterated and just refine, I guess we got it in full last minute. It's just something to be aware of and then, Yeah, getting Josh in up pinged a few times or You can go in a bit later. And then you also wasn't really part of any of these bigger conversations kind of side. You know, all of that feedback. And so, we just be good when we're moving forward. Let's get Joshua. Whoever the sound of Engineer is completely connected to the project itself. Just so that, you know, they're really tapping in
Cassandra Gray: Sana.
Sana Siddiqui: I'm just gonna add really quickly on like would it be helpful if we get an in-house sound engineer, that not only creates the sound, but also does a placement and because sometimes it ends up being, you know, just anyone,
Rayyan Roslan: Yeah. Yeah.
Cassandra Gray: I mean, I'm always a fan of having any sound, but I know that it can be a It can be an interesting role if it's not something that we constantly need.
Sana Siddiqui: Yeah, then that goes back to the To My first card, um, for a quick prototypes, like if there's issues with getting permissions, what if we just use placeholder, but use the AI generated. You know, like we designed the script or whatever it's called. Yeah, we designed the script ourselves and You see Ai?
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, I think that's on the money hundred percent. I got to drop the whole script ages ago for every scene and we didn't really take it the next step, which is, I think a good thing to flag. We use that to then consult with Richard and shape of you based on his important feedback to that too. But 100% that's got to be the way of moving forward or place. All the video that we get the good AI and the likeness of to use that. And I guess with with Josh and the sound designers like create a constant Pipeline of sound work then awesome. If Josh isn't able to help when we've needed him to then, yeah, we should definitely address that. I think he was pretty available and so it's good. He's a good example of a contractor where it's like, 10 20%, the time we need his help. So we jumps in at those stages, rather than having someone dedicated and then the questions of What are we doing with them the other 80% of the time? Yeah, I think using place all the dummy video
01:45:00
Trent Clews-de Castella:  A whole bunch of scripts for instance, that I've had run through with Jay, based on the plaques that we got in the Daintree and then we use Chat Chippy to make some video of that. We weren't intending to use Richard for the whole video. And that's why we did update things in the end because it felt way more congruent and like, woven in having that person guide you through. So those are more like learnings that were happening in real time, which admittedly then meant a lot of this was coming in pretty late in the game, but if we had some placeholder stuff, I was even testing and tabling like using Richards initial video to then shape AI video in his likeness, but we all agree that that wasn't the best approach as well. But I think, yeah, that's definitely could take away for every project with the script moving forward. Definitely.
Travis Gemmill: I think yeah to I guess it does come to that card of like just bring in sound or just like very like a lot earlier but it's kind of hard to do that sometimes because obviously the Design docs and stuff on locked up. And there's no idea what the actual experience is gonna look like, but like I was putting in the sound for a lot of this stuff and hopefully, admit that I'm definitely not like a Cassandra and there's like Bailey's coach and surface of life. Mixing like the mastering. Like there's so many different adjustments in unity of Levels. And that's what we would try to like over stack like for four different types of audio on top of each other. I don't know, just needs time for Polish otherwise it sounds really bad.
Cassandra Gray: I think that's a good. That's a good action point is considering considering how Yeah, we implement audio and stuff going forward. Cool. All right, anything else on that one that anyone wanted to Talk about. Otherwise, we're going to Lucky last. all right, oh yeah, one thing to address I am awesome. Oh, that was Samuel. I don't know why I read that asana. I was about to say, Thanks, Sana. um, Right. Okay cool. Yeah. I mean it would be good. Like I obviously have met Sam Josh through doing this project, but I hadn't really met him before that so it would be good to like, maybe meet him. Probably, or
Samuel Tate: Can I s***? It's kind of like this problem space that like I feel like I kind of end up in the crux of because I'm often Either taking responsibility to make design docs or seeing the need for them. Whether this endless chicken in the egg, we're like, You know, I feel like become a bit of a bottleneck where it's that same thing of like get the sound docks.
Samuel Tate:  Like, you know, rail be like, Hey, get Josh on like, yeah, I got to get Josh on but I got to get the story was done, but before I get to get the storyboards that I got to talk to Trenton, right? You love a lot of ideate. It and then they for them to do the ideation. I need to get the, you know, the proof of concepts from Lucas, but the Lucas to do the proof of concepts. He needs a lot. And so there's these weird downstreams at all end up with me. Like and by me, I just mean by designer and I'm just speaking for myself but you guys know what I mean? Like, some of these things like, it's super upstream, getting those designs done so that people can get them. But, like, I struggle and sometimes we go through these sessions and so much points to like, well, if we had this earlier and I'm like, well, you know, it's kind of not necessarily my job but like, in those times and it's, I'm just, I'm just kind of stumped with it because it's like,
Samuel Tate:  It's just hard and I like maybe just sharing that out there where it's like, it can be hard to get the consensus, I need from the leads, to know what to design, and then also get it to the tech people in time to then get them to work on it to then feed it back up to. And it's about getting together more and stuff. But I struggle with it and I feel like we're in this spot. A lot of times around my car manipat. I got that done earlier better blah. Yeah, just it's hard.
Cassandra Gray: I mean I would say it's probably more about maybe like empowering other people to take on some of those Jobs and responsibilities so that it's not all. Like putting all that pressure on you and kind of creating that bottleneck if that makes sense like if we at…
Samuel Tate: oh,
Cassandra Gray: because it's not the project we should be going you know his who's like responsible for what section and what areas and stuff. So maybe it's just to make making sure we're empowering other people in the team to take on some of that responsibilities. Yeah so it's not just all on you so
01:50:00
Samuel Tate:  Yeah, and I think that's like more me. Opening it up to be like, Hey, I actually have struggle with this a fair bit to get some other approaches and don't try harder to try different because yeah.
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah, and like I don't have everyone full time. This message person is very right about pre-production. Lucas
Lucas Hehir: Hey thanks. Yeah, I'm still here. I've just sort of started working on this design schedule, but something's already sort of popped out just looking at that, which is sort of very a lot of overlap with what you're talking about Sam which I think is kind of interesting.
Cassandra Gray: Yeah. I mean like it really if we want to like get really technical about it which I do because I love production, This should be like the planning and then the prairie production and the planning is when those conversations between developers and designers and everything should happen. And then really like maybe the pre-production would be like the exploration stuff as well.
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah. sorry, Lucas videos, like
Lucas Hehir: That's a great but that's really good. I think I'm having a stage. I was sort of turning up with that idea, as well as, having a separate stage before, pre-production called planning, which is even more like ephemeral, and it's more like ideation based
Cassandra Gray: yeah, I I would I would set aside like a month for planning if I could, but a lot of times hate that because not everyone loves planning and watch this fighter and also usually don't need amongst a plan felt like, Oh, but yeah, sana.
Sana Siddiqui: Um, I'm actually found that we struggle. to plan because like we Haven't explored yet if that makes sense. Because, like,…
Cassandra Gray: Okay.
Sana Siddiqui: we have this tech stack, what can we do with it? We're always asking What can we do with this amazing tech stack? We don't know because we haven't really tried it, and then it then that becomes like that chicken and eggs. So it's a planning can include, You know, bit of R&D. Then, I think, maybe that will
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah. I mean, really the cool thing with though. I mean, the way that we do planning, pre-production agile, whatever, is that we can kind of split out. However, we want. So we can have like Like what I've sorted almost done in the past is you have like a week of planning. And then say The first week of planning is literally just going what we're talking about before. Like What do we want to explore? What are the questions that we don't know? Like what, you know, What do we need to look at first? And then you can spend like a week two weeks. However, long doing The first little exploration and then you come back, have a meeting go. Here's what we found out. Here's what we need to keep looking at, and you can kind of split it up and so then you can almost have planning and pre-production happen at the same time. it's just about the name, you like, It's this is the thing about production, as you kind of just make it up and that's the big secret is that you just do whatever works but you're right. Like there needs to be
Cassandra Gray:  Like a bit of planning and exploration at the same time and then you can have like, I guess, the formal pre-production which is like the When you maybe gray boxing or writing the design documents, or, you know, whatever building prototypes, whatever it is, you want to do? Cool.
Samuel Tate: Cannot. I just wanted to like Do one little thing just to add to the Rubik's Cube of like my struggle is that to get the team ready for that,…
Cassandra Gray:  Hmm.
Samuel Tate: discovery phase of the planning phase. It does feel like it'll land with me and maybe now actually we've got a producer. So like an example is Child of nowhere, like I was like, I want to have like an internal discovery sharing face but I like had to get the like discovery briefs almost together for Allen and Sana. You know, I did my best of that and it's the same with like the The Daintree, for example, it's like and part of it is just maybe scheduling and sharing things around. And I'm not saying it's just it can be just hard to like get ahead with those briefs even if the brief is. To do a session, you know what I mean? Like, Yeah, it's just hard and not saying it. I think I should be better at it and more ahead of it sometimes but like getting ready for that.
Samuel Tate: Exploration phase. You're talking about, sana. Is what is work as well? That requires me to then they trenton a Trent right? What do we want to be exploring with the team to discover? How do we explain the questions we want to ask and…
Cassandra Gray: Well. I…
Samuel Tate: I'm not saying it's Yeah, it's just hard.
Cassandra Gray: the team needs to be part of that as well. It shouldn't just be. Like the three. It shouldn't just be three people going. Here's what we're gonna explore. The same needs to be part of that conversation. Maybe I misunderstanding like,
01:55:00
Samuel Tate:  Yeah. But maybe that's that that's the answer, right? Like
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah.
Samuel Tate:  As in opening, those places up earlier. Because that's, I'm not saying like advocating for. I'm just more like, in retrospect just being smashed with, like, trying to communicate out the briefs to people, which means I have to be like, Well, what what is it like to? Because if I just go to those meetings without that people be like, well what, you know, but finding a way to push that team consultation upstream earlier. I'm not sure. I just want to open up that little thing because it's upstreaming so many issues and I'm in the middle of it, sweating bullets trying to get like five pages of briefs out before 4pm
Cassandra Gray: Well, I mean, I don't even know if we should necessarily have briefs that early in the pro, maybe very short briefs. I don't know. Anyway now we're getting into an area, we don't it's 5:30. This is the longest meeting of all time. Actually this is not the longest production meeting I've ever had thing. You should all be glad that I learned my lesson from that but Let's we've got one more really quick. Let's move on to it. It's about foot arms and I think this is a really good one telling you know more indigenous stories and well they're both kind of the same thing. I think this is something we're sort of naturally planning to do but it is absolutely important to acknowledge, you know, going into it. To who wrote this one. Do you want to speak to her? I mean, Trent, you're probably closest to a lot of the storytelling stuff. I don't know if you want to talk about it.
Trent Clews-de Castella: So Lucas, I meet there for Microsecond,…
Cassandra Gray:  Yeah.
Trent Clews-de Castella: she's gonna show me.
Cassandra Gray: I agree.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Yeah, I guess just follow up on that.
Trent Clews-de Castella:  We really just went out to the Daintree to connect and we didn't know what we're gonna get and we came back with some incredible contents and wonderful partners. That really appreciated the invitation to collaborate and incredibly generous with sharing their stories, like even the thought of telling stories, I think we in a way are a bit more like a vessel like transmitting them in the sense like it's interesting where they give us these stories. And then we kind of question, How does Xr come into do that justice? And so I think from here, even what's coming up like Travis and I have another call with Sidney, Uni about connection to country and culture through massive tech and that's just completely separate to all of this, we're going back up in May to continue to build on that relationship. And so yeah, I think it's definitely in this really wonderful space for us, in terms of the work that we want to be doing. Yeah and that's one of the celebrate.
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Where we had arrived at, like so many of these pieces, the timeline, you know, not having enough hands-on deck. This is the first independently, fun production that we've done internally as company and, you know, as a studio team. So naturally, we will need to move, you know, a little bit harder and faster and spend a few more plates because it's bootstraps, like we don't have the luxury of pulling a client budget in to fund.
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Josh for the whole project and so yeah there is a bit more of a shared responsibility that we all had to take on and I'm super grateful for everyone stepping up. When we look back on this like the things that let us down wasn't a capacity but it was. Yes. Some of these technicalities that are out of our control. And so yeah, I just wanted to celebrate everyone's work because it's incredible. I've thoroughly love sharing this with people and it's just gonna open up so many more avenues. And yeah, it's absolutely luxury that we have been able to create something from our own kind of, you know, hearts and passions and interests. So yeah. And then I think it really. What one thing really jumped out was just what Travis shared at the end which is just comes down to creating net new experiences with many unknowns. Like we, ultimately are pioneering, we have no idea what we're doing how it works and the only way we're gonna find out is is trying new things. You know, thinking outside the box breaking
Trent Clews-de Castella:  Lot of things. And so hopefully that's not breaking ourselves, but definitely, it feels like, Yeah, it's in a fun exciting, creative space and we're in a good position to really seize it. And so yeah, the city's gonna be a whole new yeah. Game-changing moment for us. I'm excited to see what that looks like. Yeah.
Cassandra Gray: Yeah, well said Well said all right, that was a huge meeting. Thank you so much everyone for for bearing with us and getting through that. I think we had some really really good discussions. Some really really good outcomes have come out of this and there's a lot of things. From this that I think of really going to help out like, production going forward into the Sydney South by Southwest. Sorry. I wasn't reading. The I don't know how the transcripts gonna go. Well, like, we're gonna have to get chat GP to like break down the transcripts, the chat TV, I don't know. But yeah, thanks everyone. I will, I guess work with Sam to figure out the action points. From the someone left Sam left, All right, Samuel obviously doesn't want to work out the action points with me, but we'll sort it out. Um, but
02:00:00
Cassandra Gray:  Have a good. Evening, I don't know what time. It's like 5:35 now. And thank you again, everyone for bearing with this meeting.
Rayyan Roslan: Cool. Thanks guys.
Cassandra Gray:  Bye.
Travis Gemmill: Schedule.
Aleksei Bachinskii: Yeah.
Allen Lu: Yeah.
Samuel Tate: My computer went flat at the last second.
Trent Clews-de Castella: Good stuff. See
Meeting ended after 02:01:19 👋
